- [Instructor] When writing Java code,
it is often simple to just create getters and setters
for all of your data elements.
It's a bad habit from Java (mumbles)
that has taken hold of many other areas.
We'll spend a little bit
of time talking about mutability of our data.
I will warn you, this is a little bit of a soap box for me,
because this is something I'm very passionate about
across the way we write applications in web
as well as desktop and backend processing.
Making classes immutable is not an easy task.
If you're writing libraries
and need to protect your consumers
and ultimately protect their users,
you need to take immutability seriously.
In addition, if you're integrating with other systems,
immutability should be a primary concern.
First and foremost, you need to treat all class attributes
as final when possible.
This applies primarily on data transfer objects,
but even your worker objects
that maintain some form of state
should maintain immutability on that state where it can,
final is the best way to handle this.
Of course, this requires constructors
that accept all of the stated object construction time.
Oftentimes, data is dangerous in its own right.
A better option in my opinion
is to leverage private constructors
with static builder methods.
These builders can build the class
using all of the other constraints that we will discuss.
If output is a live object from your state,
you should clone it prior to returning it.
This deep copy will ensure that your internal state
cannot be modified by reference
outside your immutable walls.
In a similar vein, your inputs can also be live objects.
As such, you should copy the inputs to a new object
before you start working on it.
A true deep copy will ensure you are
no longer referencing memory that others can manipulate.
To make your consumer's life easier,
you should create a safe copy functionality
for all of your classes that they will consume
so that they can maintain your immutable pose.
Another key takeaway should be at this point
to not trust anything you don't control.
This includes equality,
equality can be easily overwritten in Java.
As such, if you are basing decisions
especially state decisions on equality,
you need to write the equality routine that you will use
and not rely on someone else's.equals method.
Finally, consider common wrappers for all state change.
Obviously purely immutable objects
have limited value in a system.
There's usually a need to modify some state at sometime
by using wrapper methods,
you can more robustly control the state change
even if you don't go to full immutability,
your setter methods should have some kind
of input validation and production code.
Role setters are dangerous.
So honestly, why go through the trouble of immutability?
You can simply prevent data issues.
Mutable data can be modified by its very nature
after to serve to or from a method, as such,
you can put in the best input validation in the world,
but if the object is mutable
and you don't protect against it, you can have bad data
by the time you act on it.
Ultimately you're controlling all paths of code,
you can trace every change and why it happened.
You can control the inputs and outputs in a way
that will give you a guaranteed contract.
This allows you to command expected results,
you can prevent yourself and your consumers
from having to handle unexpected edge cases
because you control the path.
You can guard against the contract
and not have to deal with unexpected changes
and ultimately, this is what bad actors are looking for.
Ways to exploit your system
in a way that you don't handle and didn't expect.
Now for these reasons,
immutable objects are not just security related.
You can control a lot of bugs in your code
by using robust input and output controls.
Immutability is ultimately all about the level of control
that you maintain in your application runtime.